# Code for "Radical Stereochemistry: Accounting for Diastereomers in Kinetic Mechanism Development"

## Description

This repository contains the code for the paper "Radical Stereochemistry: Accounting
for Diastereomers in Kinetic Mechanism Development" by Andreas V. Copan, Kevin B. Moore
III, Sarah N. Elliott, Clayton R.  Mulvihill, Luna Pratalli Maffei, and Stephen J.
Klippenstein.
Both the source code and the Jupyter notebooks used to generate the results are included.

Main algorithms and procedures referenced in the paper:

- Calculate stereo parities (Scheme 1): `automol/graph/base/_08canon.py::_calculate_stereo_core()`
- Enumerate stereoisomers (Scheme 2): `automol/graph/base/_11canon.py::_expand_stereo_core()`
- Generate SMILES string (Figure 13): `automol/graph/base/_10smiles.py::_connected_smiles()`
- Calculate TS stereo parities (Scheme 3): `automol/graph/base/_08canon.py::_calculate_ts_stereo()`
- Generate AMChI string (Figure 13): `automol/graph/base/_09amchi.py::_amchi_with_numbers()`
- Non-redundant mechanism expansion (Figure 14): `06_generate-non-redundantly-expanded-submechanism.ipynb`

Data for the NUIG-C6-7 and NUIG-Pyro submechanisms are generated by running the seven
numbered Jupyter notebooks in order. These notebooks contain visualizations of species
and reactions, separately visualizing reactions that were excluded because unclassified
by AutoMech.

The species in these submechansims are included in the CSV files `nuig-c6-7-species.csv`
and `nuig-pyro-species.csv`, with the following columns:

- `stereo-smiles`: A standard SMILES string, which may be missing stereochemistry for resonance-stabilized radicals.
- `ext-stereo-smiles`: An extended SMILES string for describing resonance-stabilized radicals.
- `orig-inchi`: A standard InChI string, describing only the connectivity of the species.
- `chi`: A standard InChI string with stereochemistry or, where InChI fails to describe the stereoconfiguration, an AMChI string.

Also included is a simple Jupyter notebook demonstrating the behavior of the RDKit code mentioned in the caption to Figure 2.


## Instructions

1. [Install pixi](https://pixi.sh/).
2. `pixi run jupyter notebook`
3. Run the Jupyter notebooks in numerical order.

## License

[MIT](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/)